Add http requests (#742)
substrate-developer-hub/substrate-docs: v3/how-to-guides/04-ocw/b-http-requests/index.mdx

---
title: Making HTTP Requests
slug: /how-to-guides/v3/ocw/http-requests
keywords: ['off-chain worker', 'ocw', 'http', 'https', 'requests']
version: '3.0'
section: how to guides
category: ocw
---

Making HTTP Requests

<Objectives data={[
  {
    title: 'Goal',

>     description: `Send http requests offchain`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: `Send HTTP requests offchain.`
```

  },
  {
    title: 'Use Cases',
    description: `GET data from offchain, or POST data offchain.`,
  },
]}/>

## Overview

> The offchain-worker (**ocw** for short)  was introduced to simplify the building of oracles. Because a blockchain does not have access to data outside its own network, an oracle is required to provide context on decision Making
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Off-chain workers (**OCW** for short) were introduced to extend oracle-like capabilities for Substrate blockchains. 
Because a blockchain does not have access to data outside its own network, oracles are a useful tool to enable interactions between on and off-chain worlds.

```

> In this chapter we will look through retreiving/submitting data via an API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide we will look through retrieving and submitting data via an OCW API. 
```

> Remember that although Rust provides various libraries that allow you to issue HTTP requests, the OCW runs in an [no-std](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/intro/no-std.html) environment, luckily Substrate provides us a few libraries we can use to issue HTTP requests to an API. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that although Rust provides various libraries for issuing HTTP requests, an OCW runs in an [no-std](https://docs.rust-embedded.org/book/intro/no-std.html) environment.
Luckily, Substrate provides us with a few `no_std` libraries we can use to issue HTTP requests to an API. 
```

> ### Supported Methods
> The Substrate HTTP library supports the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Substrate HTTP library supports the following methods:
```

- GET
- POST
- PUT
- PATCH
- DELETE

> ## Get Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Get request
```

1. Define a request block
  ```rust
        // We want to keep the offchain worker execution time reasonable, so we set a hard-coded
		// deadline to 2s to complete the external call.
		// You can also wait idefinitely for the response, however you may still get a timeout
		// coming from the host machine.
		let deadline = sp_io::offchain::timestamp().add(Duration::from_millis(2_000));

        // Initiate an external HTTP GET request.
		// This is using high-level wrappers from `sp_runtime`, for the low-level calls that

> 		// you can find in `sp_io`. The API is trying to be similar to `reqwest`, but

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// you can find in `sp_io`. The API is trying to be similar to `request`, but
```

		// since we are running in a custom WASM execution environment we can't simply
		// import the library here.
		let request = http::Request::get("https://min-api.cryptocompare.com/data/price?fsym=BTC&tsyms=USD");

> 		// We set the deadline for sending of the request, note that awaiting response can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// We set the deadline for sending the request but awaiting a response can
```

		// have a separate deadline. Next we send the request, before that it's also possible

> 		// to alter request headers or stream body content in case of non-GET requests.

Reviewer: Not sure what you're trying to say here / how it corresponds to line 59.

Author: I got the comments off the ocw example on substrate https://github.com/paritytech/substrate/blob/monthly-2021-12/frame/examples/offchain-worker/src/lib.rs#L582-#L584

I think it just means that for some APIs there are certain headers that need to be added for each request, but I can edit it to make more sense

		// At some point however we probably want to check the response though,
		// so we can block current thread and wait for it to finish.
		// Note that since the request is being driven by the host, we don't have to wait
		// for the request to have it complete, we will just not read the response.
		let response = pending.try_wait(deadline).map_err(|_| http::Error::DeadlineReached)??;
		// Let's check the status code before we proceed to reading the response.
		if response.code != 200 {
			log::warn!("Unexpected status code: {}", response.code);
			return Err(http::Error::Unknown)
		}

		// Next we want to fully read the response body and collect it to a vector of bytes.
		// Note that the return object allows you to read the body in chunks as well
		// with a way to control the deadline.
		let body = response.body().collect::<Vec<u8>>();

		// Create a str slice from the body.
		let body_str = sp_std::str::from_utf8(&body).map_err(|_| {
			log::warn!("No UTF8 body");
			http::Error::Unknown
		})?;
  
  ```

Next up, we will work on submitting data to an API. This could be useful for pushing data existing in the blockchain offchain

> ## Post Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Post request
```
